[Music]
one two three four down my last count
what are seven must have tools for any
website hey i'm sam dunning co-owner
over at webchoiceuk.com and host the top
100 marketing podcast business growth
show and let's jump into the seven tools
number one we have an ssl certificate
ssl certificate is when you search for a
website in the top search bar before the
website address itself you'll see a
https colon slash
along with a padlock why do you need it
well it adds a level of encrypted
security to your website it gives people
peace of mind that you're a secure site
but more importantly if you don't have
one now google will flag your website as
unsecure so if someone searches for your
site they see a ranking on google click
it it will say this warning this website
is unsafe or insecure and it'll actually
be really difficult for people to access
your site so you'll lose a lot of
traffic potential sales opportunities
too plus it's now a google ranking
factor so really important you get one
of those set up and installed on your
site
number two google analytics a must-have
if you're doing any kind of marketing to
your site be that seo paid ads email
marketing affiliate marketing whatever
the heck you're doing so you can
actually measure the results so great
thing about google analytics is you can
measure the traffic each day week month
to your site you can measure the traffic
sources so what channels what marketing
channels are driving traffic to your
site you can set up conversion goals so
what i mean by that is every time
someone inquires through a contact form
starts a live chat and drops an email
gives you a call and when someone makes
a purchase on your site you can set
these all up as conversions or goals so
you can measure um how well your site is
performing as well as the channels
people are finding your website plus
you can understand people's locations so
how they're finding you which countries
or which areas they're finding your
website from plus a bunch of other
useful things such as session times on
your website bounce rates when people
come onto your website only your one
page and then bounce off before
exploring it further load of other
useful things to help you understand how
your website your marketing is
performing
number three we have recapture so
recapture is a great tool that you can
set up
again a free tool that you can set up on
your inquiry forms so you might have
seen it if you filled out an inquiry
form you take a box to say um i am not a
robot or some of them make you
click on certain images to say look
where is the scooter or where is the
motorcycle on this image so basically
proves that your inquiry inquiries
aren't robots
so again this tool is very simple to set
up recommend it to help you filter out
spam on your inbox and if you're
marketing your site you'll probably
notice you get a lot of spam enquiries
that's going to help you out
hotjar number four hotjar is an awesome
tool why would you want to use it well
it helps you with a bunch of things
around understanding heat maps so how
people actually interact with your
website what areas they're clicking on
on your home pages or your landing pages
why is it good well it can make you
understand if your website is perhaps
not converting or generating as many
leads as you'd hoped you can understand
what pages people are dropping off how
people are clicking on your site if
they're not clicking your call to
actions if they're not taking the
direction you want them to take you can
understand what's working well and what
perhaps needs improvements hotjar also
has
um survey tools so you can set up
surveys on your site so understand how
people are enjoying your site what
aspects they like what they dislike what
you can improve so really good around
heat map software and surveys and
gathering that data to improve your
conversion rates on your site
number five semrush love this tool uh as
a big seo nerd as well as our team at
webchoice we love helping clients with
seo results as well as our own site so
sem rush has free versions of paid
versions
now what it's going to do is it going to
give you a bunch of useful tools to help
understand one how well your website is
ranking currently on google
it's got keyword planning tools so you
can understand what effective keywords
you should look to rank your website for
based on the products or services you
want to get page one of google and drive
that all important traffic and sales
leads for it can let you understand any
issues with your current website around
seo in terms of broken links pages
metadata and all that good stuff it can
help you with competitor analysis it can
help you understand where current
keywords are ranking any quick wins it
can basically give you a full overview
of your seo performance and where you
need to go with it so really really good
tool i recommend if you're doing any
kind of seo for your site
number six again
very helpful for seo google my business
this is a free tool and if you haven't
got it i recommend going on google my
business right now and setting up
so google my business when you do a
google search you'll probably notice
there's results
with the map section not far from the
top and you've got a cluster of three or
so results and based on if you've ever
done something like
bakery near me or it support near me or
anything like that or search for x
service or product in a certain location
you'll see the google my business
results near the top
this is free to set up you just put in
your business info your location the
good thing about it as well is you can
collect reviews
and
it's all free so the good thing about it
is it helps your seo
it helps you with a google review
collection tool
and it's going to boost your website
it's going to help you with more traffic
more credibility more trust for the long
term so it's well worth setting up
and last but by no means least one of
the silent killers of websites is page
speed
so you can lose traffic you can lose
customers you can use prospects to your
site and you'll never know about them
because if your website takes too long
to load people can get bored and go to a
competitor that gives them a better
experience and loads faster
google page speed insights is a great
tool you type in your website address
and it'll tell you how fast your website
is in seconds on mobile and pc
not only that but i'll give you
actionable tips once it runs the search
on how you can improve your loading
speeds your loading times
and basically give better performance
because load speed helps a better low
speed helps your seo helps your
conversion rates so it helps
generate more sales or more sales leads
and it gives people a more enjoyable
experience on your website so really
recommend checking that one out and
there you have it those are seven
must-have tools for any website
as always if you enjoyed today's episode
hit that subscribe button and with that
i shall catch you on the next one